---
title: Pharmacy exam 2017-11-06
date: 2017-11-06
tags: [Exam]
categories: [Calculus, Pharmacy, Biotechnology]
type: book
---
Degrees: Pharmacy and Biotechnology  
Date: Nov 6, 2017

## Question 1

Adenoma is a benign tumor, which grows usually in spherical shape.
Suppose the rate of growth of the radius of a certain adenoma is equal to half the size of the radius per second; compute the rate of growth of the volume of the tumor when the radius is 5mm.
  
If the measurement of the radius has a possible error of $\pm 0.01$mm, what will be the error in the measurement of the volume?
  
Note: The volume of a sphere of radius $r$ is equal to $\frac{4}{3}\pi r^3$.

{{< spoiler text="Solution" >}}
Rate of growth of the volume: $250\pi$ mm³/s.  
Error in the volume: $\pi$ mm³.
{{< /spoiler >}}

## Question 2

The weight of a baby during the first few months of life grows at a rate proportional to the reciprocal of the weight.
Suppose a baby's weight was 3.3 kg at birth, and 4.3 kg a month later.

1. What will be the weight of the baby one year after birth?
2. When will the weight be equal to 8 kg?
3. Is this model of the weight good to determine the weight of a person during his whole life?

{{< spoiler text="Solution" >}}
Let $t$ the time and $w(t)$ the weight of the baby at time $t$.

1. Differential equation: $w'=\dfrac{k}{w}$  
Particular solution: $w(t)=\sqrt{7.6t+10.89}$.  
$w(12)=10.1$ kg.  
2. At 7 months.
3. No, because the function is always increasing.

{{< /spoiler >}}

## Question 3

The function $f(x,y)=ye^{-x^2-\frac{1}{2}y^2}$ gives the quantity  $z=f(x,y)$ of a substance during a chemical process, depending on the quantities $x$ and $y$ of two other substances.

1. Compute the maximum value of $z$ assuming that $x\geq 0$ and $y\geq 0$.
2. What will be the variation of $z$ at $x=1$ and $y=0$ when $x$ increases twice as much as $y$?
3. Compute the second degree Taylor polynomial of $f$ at the point $(1,0)$.

{{< spoiler text="Solution" >}}

1. $f$ has a local maximum at $(0,1)$ and the maximum value is $z=f(0,1)=1/\sqrt{e}$.
2. Directional derivative of $f$ at $(1,0)$ along the direction of $v=(2,1)$: $f'_v(1,0)=\frac{1}{e\sqrt{5}}$.
3. $P^2_{f,(1,0)}(x,y)=\displaystyle\frac{-2xy+3y}{e}$.

{{< /spoiler >}}

## Question 4

Given $h(t)=(t\cos(t), \cos(t), \ln(t^2+1)),$ compute the tangent line and normal plane to the trajectory determined by $h$ at the point $(0,1,0)$.

{{< spoiler text="Solution" >}}

1. Tangent line: $(t,1,0)$.
2. Normal plane: $x=0$.

{{< /spoiler >}}
